show me what you got
okay yeah good so I think the discussion
started with an idea that has been kind
of floating around and in them oh yeah
in the bid swamp
repo for a little bit part of a
conversation between Jeremy and Stephen
about how to make bid swap more
efficient and the idea is that we know a
lot about the dag as we're fetching
content from peers we know historically
which peers have given us which parts of
the dag that we're currently fetching
among other things and we can use that
information to predict more
intelligently which peers are likely to
have the content we currently want with
for instance if we had already gotten a
sibling of a current node from a peer
then that peer is a decent candidate for
giving us the block we currently want
and you can imagine other things like
that other relationships in the deck
that might make appear likely to have a
block that we're looking for so it's I
think that that started there was sort
of a general acceptance that okay let's
see where we can build in that kind of
smarts and there was a notion that it
would be a service consumed by bit swamp
that would be like big swap says hey I
want I just got this block from this
peer do whatever you want with it cache
that information you know you have your
build up your own intelligence about the
or build up your own conclusions and
then get me a list of peers ordered
potentially that might be good for this
block so a simple API I think Stephen
actually had a more ambitious refactor
in mind also he's sort of questioned or
was there was a an open discussion about
whether that is appropriate whether
the service that should be consumed by
this pot whether it should actually be a
driver of did swap actually have smarts
and just relayed a bit swap one bit swap
should be doing who bid swap should be
fetching a set of blocks from what which
peers and that's sort of what a session
is in a sense although it's not factored
that way but a session is in essence a
way of telling bit swap which peers are
good for fetching any given block so I
think if we scroll down a little bit we
see does it actually scroll down even
further and I can you know Stephen
diagram a sort of future world where
that involves other transports I don't
know transports right word but other
things that are parallels have been swap
in essence like brass sink so a
different protocol spoken for exchanging
data between peers and how we actually
might want to factor the codes so that
there was proper coordination and until
an ability to make intelligent decisions
about how to use various transports for
getting data and right now basically bit
swap is probably responsible for too
much when we have graph sync we are
actually probably going to want
orchestrating something that can make
intelligent routing decisions between
should I bench this from peers and bit
swap or should I fetch this from peers
using graphs Inc one what protocols do
they speak to how high quality are the
peers three well they're not numbered
this way three what have we already
gotten from these peers so there's lots
of potentially pretty complicated ways
in which we could rank peers and suggest
that
some better than others for fetching
data from so this is actually pretty
different from the way it looks
currently I'm not gonna go into too much
detail I think maybe some of you who are
more familiar with the code than I am
recognize how different it is from the
way things currently work yeah this was
I can talk briefly about the thing
that's just actually just above it which
was um this had already been thought of
before and there was actually like divvy
sort of showed what something that had
been considered in the past which was
more of a fall through behavior where
graph sync was the was the superior
transport device and that's meaning it a
little bit it's not quite a transport
device but whatever you grab sync was
like a better way of getting data from
other peers failing graphs inky would
fall through to the block service I'm
sorry you would yeah you'd fail through
you'd fall through the block service
which only knows about blocks it would
potentially ask bit swap for data and it
would be the thing that also understood
about the repo and you like how to add
files to add blocks to the repo and get
blocks out of the repo so I guess the
one thing um Kubo immediately was like
okay one thing I don't like about this
if you can't make smart routing
decisions or really smart routing the
students between graphs and convinced
well like you can't have them running at
the same time for a set of blocks you
can't divide things up or you can't for
instance if you're on the local network
with really awesome bit swap peers but
you have some graphs and peers that are
whatever far away high latency you might
want to actually prioritize those bits
wan peers and talk to them first
instead of using graphs of grassing to
get data so that i mean that is true if
this is really technically a fall
through pattern then that is true and so
this other the other architecture
definitely architecture the other way of
laying out our responsibilities
definitely gives us an opportunity to to
make sort of higher-level decisions
about how we want to do stuff
which appears gavage it also
yeah the in the details things will
it'll be interesting to see how this
exactly falls out it is interesting
where the block store lives in this
picture here which i think is good but
it's really set it's very much separated
from from the actual transfer of data
between tears now can it actually be
that super separated it's not it's a
little hard to know exactly how we're
gonna plumb some of that stuff in
because in the discussion this morning
with you sort of pointed out well
there's been swapped fetching and then
there's also bit swap serving that swap
serving obviously needs to respond needs
well they don't they both need somehow
to get data in and out of the block
store potentially just knowing whether
you have blocks already as you try to
fetch blocks in although that could be a
the job of the block service but in
another case when you're serving them up
we don't know exactly but maybe more
also like we don't want to build all of
this before we do the thing that we were
setting out to do in the very first
place which was make for smarter bid
swap and make better decisions in bit
swap so I guess the idea the idea is
first to break up that swap a little bit
the way it is right now just sort of the
things I think you can think of this
sort of as like this is the thing that
knows about sessions and out of how to
wrap across peers bit swap requests and
this is just a thing that does the
requests basically and we would
introduce basically this part on top of
on top of bit swap which you know these
things are basically the same and we
would introduce okay not quite we would
introduce the dag exchange that this in
this are basically same and we would
introduce the smarts about the
structural smarts about which beers have
given us what in the dag
we would use that and we may also have I
mean that is actually sort of the
session in a sense but it's like
information like a session would be
about making decisions about what peers
to communicate with that's what all in
and that's the first thing you would do
would presumably without doing all the
refactoring and probably still having
block store like bit swap a little bit
more closely tied with friends right now